docs/source/installing.rst, before:

.. _installing:

==========
Installing
==========

.. _from_binaries:

Binaries
========

`hekad` `releases are available on the Github project releases page
<https://github.com/mozilla-services/heka/releases>`_.
Binaries are available for Linux and OSX, with packages for Debian and
RPM based distributions.

.. _from_source:

From Source
===========

`hekad` requires a Go work environment to be setup for the binary to be
built; this task is automated by the build process. The build script will
override the Go environment for the shell window it is executed in. This creates
an isolated environment that is intended specifically for building and 
developing Heka.  The build script should be be run every time a new shell is 
opened for Heka development to ensure the correct dependencies are found and 
being used. To create a working `hekad` binary for your platform you'll need to
install some prerequisites. Many of these are standard on modern Unix 
distributions and all are available for installation on Windows systems.

Prerequisites (all systems):

- CMake 2.8.7 or greater http://www.cmake.org/cmake/resources/software.html
- Git http://git-scm.com/download
- Go 1.1 or greater (1.1.1 recommended) http://code.google.com/p/go/downloads/list
- Mercurial http://mercurial.selenic.com/downloads/
- Protobuf 2.3 or greater (optional - only needed if message.proto is modified) http://code.google.com/p/protobuf/downloads/list
- Sphinx (optional - used to generate the documentation) http://sphinx-doc.org/

Prerequisites (Unix):

- make
- gcc
- patch
- dpkg (optional)
- rpmbuild (optional)
- packagemaker (optional)

Prerequisites (Windows):

- MinGW http://sourceforge.net/projects/tdm-gcc/

.. _build_instructions:

Build Instructions
------------------

1. Check out the `heka`_ repository:

    .. code-block:: bash

        git clone https://github.com/mozilla-services/heka

2. Run `build` in the heka directory

    .. code-block:: bash

        cd heka
        source build.sh # Unix (this file must be sourced to properly setup the environment)
        build.bat  # Windows

You will now have a `hekad` binary in the `build/heka/bin` directory.

3. (Optional) Run the tests to ensure a functioning `hekad`.

    .. code-block:: bash

        ctest             # All, see note
        # Or use the makefile target
        make test         # Unix
        mingw32-make test # Windows

.. note::

    In addition to the standard test build target, ctest can be called directly
    providing much greater control over the tests being run and the generated
    output (see ctest --help). i.e., 'ctest -R pi' will only run the pipeline
    unit test.

.. _build_clean:

Clean Targets
-------------
- clean-heka - Use this target any time you change branches or pull from the Heka repository, it will ensure the Go workspace is in sync with the repository tree.
- clean - You will never want to use this target (it is autogenerated by cmake), it will cause all external dependencies to be re-fetched and re-built.  The best way to 'clean-all' is to delete the build directory and re-run the build.(sh|bat) script.

.. _build_options:

Build Options
-------------

There are two build customization options that can be specified during the cmake generation process.

- INCLUDE_MOZSVC (bool) Include the Mozilla services plugins (default Unix: true, Windows: false).
- BENCHMARK (bool) Enable the benchmark tests (default false)

For example: to enable the benchmark tests in addition to the standard unit tests
type 'cmake -DBENCHMARK=true ..' in the build directory.

.. _build_include_externals:

Building `hekad` with External Plugins
======================================

It is possible to extend `hekad` by writing input, decoder, filter, or output
plugins in Go (see :ref:`plugins`). Because Go only supports static linking of
Go code, your plugins must be included with and registered into Heka at
compile time. The build process supports this through the use of an optional 
cmake file `{heka root}/cmake/plugin_loader.cmake`.  A cmake function has been
provided `add_external_plugin` taking the repository type (git, hg, or svn), 
repository URL, the repository tag to fetch, and an optional list of 
sub-packages to be initialized.

    .. code-block:: txt

        add_external_plugin(git https://github.com/mozilla-services/heka-mozsvc-plugins dev)
        add_external_plugin(git https://github.com/example/path dev util filepath)

The preceeding entry clones the `heka-mozsvc-plugins` git repository into the Go
work environment, checks out the dev branch, and imports the package into 
`hekad` when `make` is run. By adding an `init() function <http://golang.org/doc/effective_go.html#init>`_ 
in your package you can make calls into `pipeline.RegisterPlugin` to register 
your plugins with Heka's configuration system.

.. _build_pkgs:

Creating Packages
=================

Installing packages on a system is generally the easiest way to deploy
`hekad`. These packages can be easily created after following the above
:ref:`From Source <from_source>` directions:

1. Run `cpack` to build the appropriate package(s) for the current
system:

    .. code-block:: bash

        cpack                # All
        # Or use the makefile target
        make package         # Unix
        mingw32-make package # Windows

The packages will be created in the build directory.

.. note::

    You will need `rpmbuild` installed to build the rpms.

    .. seealso:: `Setting up an rpm-build environment <http://wiki.centos.org/HowTos/SetupRpmBuildEnvironment>`_

Commit message:

Squashed 'src/github.com/mozilla-services/heka/' changes from c19b74d..812c561
812c561 Merge tag 'v0.4.2'
4256703 Version bump / prep for 0.4.2 release.
2995e7b Merge pull request #555 from mozilla-services/cpack-deb-rename-hack
8b169f3 Set and use CPACK_DEBIAN_PACKAGE_ARCHITECTURE in our deb file (name instead of GO_ARCH).
e8da564 Use cpack command flags instead of a shell script to change the deb package file name, remove the shell script, don't generate a deb package when running 'make package', and document the change.
c54678a Make the custom target specific to deb packages.
62903b3 Ugly hack, creating a custom `pkg` target that does exactly what `package` does except it renames any debs after the packages are built.
e167d1b Clarify required use of ProtobufDecoder for inter-Heka communication.
ec69a80 Explicitly exclude folders that cpack will incorrectly add to the RPM file, see http://public.kitware.com/Bug/view.php?id=13609.

git-subtree-dir: src/github.com/mozilla-services/heka
git-subtree-split: 812c5616514e44e0f80cb8112e5fb06bc1ca569a

docs/source/installing.rst, after:

.. _installing:

==========
Installing
==========

.. _from_binaries:

Binaries
========

`hekad` `releases are available on the Github project releases page
<https://github.com/mozilla-services/heka/releases>`_.
Binaries are available for Linux and OSX, with packages for Debian and
RPM based distributions.

.. _from_source:

From Source
===========

`hekad` requires a Go work environment to be setup for the binary to be
built; this task is automated by the build process. The build script will
override the Go environment for the shell window it is executed in. This creates
an isolated environment that is intended specifically for building and 
developing Heka.  The build script should be be run every time a new shell is 
opened for Heka development to ensure the correct dependencies are found and 
being used. To create a working `hekad` binary for your platform you'll need to
install some prerequisites. Many of these are standard on modern Unix 
distributions and all are available for installation on Windows systems.

Prerequisites (all systems):

- CMake 2.8.7 or greater http://www.cmake.org/cmake/resources/software.html
- Git http://git-scm.com/download
- Go 1.1 or greater (1.1.1 recommended) http://code.google.com/p/go/downloads/list
- Mercurial http://mercurial.selenic.com/downloads/
- Protobuf 2.3 or greater (optional - only needed if message.proto is modified) http://code.google.com/p/protobuf/downloads/list
- Sphinx (optional - used to generate the documentation) http://sphinx-doc.org/

Prerequisites (Unix):

- make
- gcc
- patch
- dpkg (optional)
- rpmbuild (optional)
- packagemaker (optional)

Prerequisites (Windows):

- MinGW http://sourceforge.net/projects/tdm-gcc/

.. _build_instructions:

Build Instructions
------------------

1. Check out the `heka`_ repository:

    .. code-block:: bash

        git clone https://github.com/mozilla-services/heka

2. Run `build` in the heka directory

    .. code-block:: bash

        cd heka
        source build.sh # Unix (this file must be sourced to properly setup the environment)
        build.bat  # Windows

You will now have a `hekad` binary in the `build/heka/bin` directory.

3. (Optional) Run the tests to ensure a functioning `hekad`.

    .. code-block:: bash

        ctest             # All, see note
        # Or use the makefile target
        make test         # Unix
        mingw32-make test # Windows

.. note::

    In addition to the standard test build target, ctest can be called directly
    providing much greater control over the tests being run and the generated
    output (see ctest --help). i.e., 'ctest -R pi' will only run the pipeline
    unit test.

.. _build_clean:

Clean Targets
-------------
- clean-heka - Use this target any time you change branches or pull from the Heka repository, it will ensure the Go workspace is in sync with the repository tree.
- clean - You will never want to use this target (it is autogenerated by cmake), it will cause all external dependencies to be re-fetched and re-built.  The best way to 'clean-all' is to delete the build directory and re-run the build.(sh|bat) script.

.. _build_options:

Build Options
-------------

There are two build customization options that can be specified during the cmake generation process.

- INCLUDE_MOZSVC (bool) Include the Mozilla services plugins (default Unix: true, Windows: false).
- BENCHMARK (bool) Enable the benchmark tests (default false)

For example: to enable the benchmark tests in addition to the standard unit tests
type 'cmake -DBENCHMARK=true ..' in the build directory.

.. _build_include_externals:

Building `hekad` with External Plugins
======================================

It is possible to extend `hekad` by writing input, decoder, filter, or output
plugins in Go (see :ref:`plugins`). Because Go only supports static linking of
Go code, your plugins must be included with and registered into Heka at
compile time. The build process supports this through the use of an optional 
cmake file `{heka root}/cmake/plugin_loader.cmake`.  A cmake function has been
provided `add_external_plugin` taking the repository type (git, hg, or svn), 
repository URL, the repository tag to fetch, and an optional list of 
sub-packages to be initialized.

    .. code-block:: txt

        add_external_plugin(git https://github.com/mozilla-services/heka-mozsvc-plugins dev)
        add_external_plugin(git https://github.com/example/path dev util filepath)

The preceeding entry clones the `heka-mozsvc-plugins` git repository into the Go
work environment, checks out the dev branch, and imports the package into 
`hekad` when `make` is run. By adding an `init() function <http://golang.org/doc/effective_go.html#init>`_ 
in your package you can make calls into `pipeline.RegisterPlugin` to register 
your plugins with Heka's configuration system.

.. _build_pkgs:

Creating Packages
=================

Installing packages on a system is generally the easiest way to deploy
`hekad`. These packages can be easily created after following the above
:ref:`From Source <from_source>` directions:

1. Run `cpack` to build the appropriate package(s) for the current
system:

    .. code-block:: bash

        cpack                # All
        # Or use the makefile target
        make package         # Unix (no deb, see below)
        make deb             # Unix (if dpkg is available see below)
        mingw32-make package # Windows

The packages will be created in the build directory.

.. note::

    You will need `rpmbuild` installed to build the rpms.

    .. seealso:: `Setting up an rpm-build environment <http://wiki.centos.org/HowTos/SetupRpmBuildEnvironment>`_

.. note::

    For file name convention reasons, deb packages won't be created by running
    `cpack` or `make package`, even on a Unix machine w/ dpkg installed.
    Instead, running `source build.sh` on such a machine will generate a
    Makefile with a separate 'deb' target, so you can run `make deb` to
    generate the appropriate deb package.
