docs/SELFHOSTING.md, before:

# How to run your own ngrokd server

Running your own ngrok server is really easy! The instructions below will guide you along your way!

## 1. Get an SSL certificate
ngrok provides secure tunnels via TLS, so you'll need an SSL certificate. Assuming you want to create
tunnels on *.example.com, buy a wildcard SSL certificate for *.example.com.

## 2. Modify your DNS
You need to use the DNS management tools given to you by your provider to create an A
record which points *.example.com to the IP address of the server where you will run ngrokd.

## 3. Compile it
You can compile an ngrokd server with the following command:

	make release-server

Make sure you compile it with the GOOS/GOARCH environment variables set to the platform of
your target server. Then copy the binary over to your server.

## 4. Run the server
You'll run the server with the following command.


	./ngrokd -tlsKey="/path/to/tls.key" -tlsCrt="/path/to/tls.crt" -domain="example.com"

### Specifying your TLS certificate and key
ngrok only makes TLS-encrypted connections. When you run ngrokd, you'll need to instruct it
where to find your TLS certificate and private key. Specify the paths with the following switches:

	-tlsKey="/path/to/tls.key" -tlsCert="/path/to/tls.crt"

### Setting the server's domain
When you run your own ngrokd server, you need to tell ngrokd the domain it's running on so that it
knows what URLs to issue to clients.

	-domain="example.com"

## 5. Configure the client
In order to connect with a client, you'll need to set two options in ngrok's configuration file.
The ngrok configuration file is a simple YAML file that is read from ~/.ngrok by default. You may specify
a custom configuration file path with the -config switch. Your config file must contain the following two
options.

	server_addr: example.com:4443
	trust_host_root_certs: true

Subsitute the address of your ngrokd server for "example.com:4443". The "trust_host_root_certs" parameter instructs
ngrok to trust the root certificates on your computer when establishing TLS connections to the server. By default, ngrok
only trusts the root certificate for ngrok.com.

## 6. Connect with a client
Then, just run ngrok as usual to connect securely to your own ngrokd server!

	ngrok 80

## FAQ
#### Do I really need a wildcard certificate?
If you don't need to run https tunnels, then you don't need a wildcard cert.

#### I don't want to pay for an SSL certificate, can I use a self-signed one?
Yes, it's possible to use a self-signed certificate, but you'll need to recompile ngrok with your signing CA.

Commit message:

Squashed 'src/github.com/inconshreveable/ngrok/' changes from dceff05..6d6ab48
6d6ab48 fix makefile to allow parallel builds
da624ca Link to the official download page instead of per-platform links
74ac99a Merge pull request #140 from rjocoleman/sha-2
b958c68 client: add support for SHA-2
d5c42b1 add 1.7 changelog
b7d5571 bump version
e3901cc check for permissions to update at a better time
abb49ed vendor and fix DumpRequestOut so that ngrok properly dumps and replays requests with bodies > 8192 bytes. fixes #118 and #91
b6f7258 fix for handling responses with no body
8fa9189 credits for selfhosting help
90a139f update self-hosting doc
90f6158 remove flags for debugging from Makefile that were causing compiler crashes on build. fixes #126
f22ce57 integrate with equinox.
e90fe9f Merge branch 'master' of github.com:inconshreveable/ngrok
eb6f733 new go-update API
ee75c8f Merge pull request #82 from danieljimenez/master
ebc0afb update self-hosting doc to remind you to turn off trust_host_root_certs if you're signing with your own CA
6296b14 fix authorization header
9bdf1ef use the new mousetrap API
a1c6b6b Merge branch 'equinox'
45c7f86 include app id
f2686d7 help windows users by detecting if the program was invoked from explorer
94c87f1 new updating code
c260a1a Merge pull request #114 from pborreli/typos
44b6b91 Fixed typos
9df0907 update gitignore
115c6ea fix go-yaml import
530e9e1 Merge pull request #95 from mattn/go-yaml-v1
2019337 Merge pull request #96 from fcarriedo/master
cbe945f Fixed another typo 'tlsCert' to 'tlsCrt'
ceac26e Use go-yaml-v1
278b933 fix synchronization error in lrucache's loaditems
2e5e6ac Changes per suggestions by Alan.
bb7dd10 Adding example plist for running ngrok in the background on OS X with launchd.

git-subtree-dir: src/github.com/inconshreveable/ngrok
git-subtree-split: 6d6ab48068b0408d1803e3b899130467a00486f8

docs/SELFHOSTING.md, after:

# How to run your own ngrokd server

Running your own ngrok server is really easy! The instructions below will guide you along your way!

## 1. Get an SSL certificate
ngrok provides secure tunnels via TLS, so you'll need an SSL certificate. Assuming you want to create
tunnels on *.example.com, buy a wildcard SSL certificate for *.example.com. Note that if you
don't need to run https tunnels that you don't need a wildcard certificate. (In fact, you can
just use a self-signed cert at that point, see the section on that later in the document).

## 2. Modify your DNS
You need to use the DNS management tools given to you by your provider to create an A
record which points *.example.com to the IP address of the server where you will run ngrokd.

## 3. Compile it
You can compile an ngrokd server with the following command:

	make release-server

Make sure you compile it with the GOOS/GOARCH environment variables set to the platform of
your target server. Then copy the binary over to your server.

## 4. Run the server
You'll run the server with the following command.


	./ngrokd -tlsKey="/path/to/tls.key" -tlsCrt="/path/to/tls.crt" -domain="example.com"

### Specifying your TLS certificate and key
ngrok only makes TLS-encrypted connections. When you run ngrokd, you'll need to instruct it
where to find your TLS certificate and private key. Specify the paths with the following switches:

	-tlsKey="/path/to/tls.key" -tlsCrt="/path/to/tls.crt"

### Setting the server's domain
When you run your own ngrokd server, you need to tell ngrokd the domain it's running on so that it
knows what URLs to issue to clients.

	-domain="example.com"

## 5. Configure the client
In order to connect with a client, you'll need to set two options in ngrok's configuration file.
The ngrok configuration file is a simple YAML file that is read from ~/.ngrok by default. You may specify
a custom configuration file path with the -config switch. Your config file must contain the following two
options.

	server_addr: example.com:4443
	trust_host_root_certs: true

Substitute the address of your ngrokd server for "example.com:4443". The "trust_host_root_certs" parameter instructs
ngrok to trust the root certificates on your computer when establishing TLS connections to the server. By default, ngrok
only trusts the root certificate for ngrok.com.

## 6. Connect with a client
Then, just run ngrok as usual to connect securely to your own ngrokd server!

	ngrok 80

# ngrokd with a self-signed SSL certificate
It's possible to run ngrokd with a a self-signed certificate, but you'll need to recompile ngrok with your signing CA.
If you do choose to use a self-signed cert, please note that you must either remove the configuration value for
trust_host_root_certs or set it to false:

    trust_host_root_certs: false

Special thanks @kk86bioinfo, @lyoshenka and everyone in the thread https://github.com/inconshreveable/ngrok/issues/84 for help in writing up instructions on how to do it:

https://gist.github.com/lyoshenka/002b7fbd801d0fd21f2f
https://github.com/inconshreveable/ngrok/issues/84
